# Machine Learning
supervised learning, semi-supervised and active learning, unsupervised learning, kernel methods, probabilistic graphical models, classifier combination, neural networks

## Missing links prediction

Pairwise relationships are prevalent in real life. For example, friendships between people, communication links between computers and pairwise similarity of images. Networks provide a way to represent a group of relationships. The entities in question are represented as network nodes and the pairwise relations as edges.
In real network data, there are often missing edges between nodes. This can be due to a bug or deficiency in the data collection process, a lack of resources to collect all pairwise relations or simply there is uncertainty about those relationships. Analysis performed on incomplete networks with missing edges can bias the final output, e.g., if we want to find the shortest path between two cities in a road network, but we are missing information of major highways between these cities, then no algorithm will able to find this actual shortest path.
Furthermore, we might want to predict if an edge will form between two nodes in the future. For example, in disease transmission networks, if health authorities determine a high likelihood of a transmission edge forming between an infected and uninfected person, then the authorities might wish to vaccinate the uninfected person.
In this way, being able to predict and correct for missing edges is an important task.

In this project, the system will be learning from a training network and will try to predict whether edges exist among test node pairs.

The training network is a partial crawl of the Twitter social network. The nodes in the network—Twitter users—have been given randomly assigned IDs, and a directed edge from node A to B represents that user A follows B. The training network is a subgraph of the entire network. Starting from several random seed nodes, we proceeded to obtain the friends of the seeds, then their friends’ friends, and so on for several iterations.

The test data is a list of 2,000 edges, and the task is to predict if each of those test edges are really edges in the Twitter network or are fake ones. 1,000 of these test edges are real and withheld from the training network, while the other 1,000 do not actually exist.

## Multi-armed bandits
Multi-armed bandits (MABs) are a powerful tool in statistical machine learning: they bridge decision making, control, optimisation and learning; they address practical problems of sequential decision making while backed by elegant theoretical guarantees; they are often easily implemented, efficient to run, and are used in many industrial applications; and more subtly they are neither fully supervised nor unsupervised, being partial labelled by indirect rewards. Exploitation behaviour in MABs optimises short-term rewards by acting greedily based on current knowledge; but this must be balanced against imprecision in knowledge by exploration; and when effectively balanced, MABs optimise for long-term reward.

Through the 2000s Yahoo! Research led the way in applying MABs to problems in online advertising, information retrieval, and media recommendation. One of their many applications was to Yahoo! News, in deciding what news items to recommend to users based on article content, user profile, and the historical engagement of the user with articles. Given decision making in this setting is sequential —what do we show next— and feedback is only available for articles shown, Yahoo! researchers observed a perfect formulation for MABs like (ε-Greedy and UCB). Going further, however, they realised that incorporating some element of user-article state requires contextual bandits: articles are arms; context per round incorporates information about both user and article (arm); and {0, 1}-valued rewards represent clicks. Therefore the per round cumulative reward represents click-through-rate (CTR) which is exactly what services like Yahoo! News want to maximise to drive user engagement and advertising revenue.
